
1) A user-friendly program should print an introduction that tells the user what the program does. Modify the convert. py program (Section 2.2) to print an introduction.

2) On many systems with Python, it is possible to run a program by simply clicking (or double-clicking) on the icon of the program file. If you are able to run the convert. py program this way, you may discover another usability issue. The program starts running in a new window, but as soon as the program has finished, the window disappears so that you cannot read the results. Add an input statement at the end of the program so that it pauses to give the user a chance to read the results. Something like this should work:
input ("Press the ‹Enter › key to quit.")

3) Write a program that counts (i.e., prints out numbers) from 0 through 100.

4) Modify the convert py program (Section 22) with a loop so that it executes five times before quitting. Each time through the loop, the program should get another temperature from the user and print the converted value.

5) Modify the convert. py program (Section 2.2) so that it computes and prints a table of Celsius temperatures and the Fahrenheit equivalents every 10 degrees from 0 degrees Celsius to 100 degrees Celsius.

6) Modify the futval. py program (Section 2.7) so that the number of years for the investment is also a user input (Note: This will be an int value).
Make sure to change the final message to reflect the correct number of years.

7) Suppose you have an investment plan where you invest a certain fixed amount every year. Modify futval. py (Section 2.7) to compute the total accumulation of your investment. The inputs to the program will be the amount to invest each year, the interest rate, and the number of years for the investment.

8) As an alternative to APR, the interest accrued on an account is often described in terms of a nominal rate and the number of compounding peri-ods. For example, if the interest rate is 3% and the interest is compounded quarterly, the account actually earns 3% interest every three months.
Modify the futval. py program to use this method of entering the interest rate. The program should prompt the user for the nominal rate (rate) and the number of times that the interest is compounded each year (periods, an int). To compute the value in ten years, the program will loop 10 * periods times and accrue rate/period interest on each itera-tion.

9) Write a program that converts temperatures from Fahrenheit to Celsius.

10) Write a program that converts distances measured in kilometers to miles.
One kilometer is approximately 0.62 miles.

11) Write a program to perform a unit conversion of your own choosing. Make sure that the program prints an introduction that explains what it does.

12) Write a program that allows a student to find the average of three exam scores entered by the user.
